Newport as a town, well it was doing well. Even though the Tories were in governance
and you would have thought that Newport would have been economically compromised by that.
It was winning awards for the best cap town in Britain or in Wales. There was a sense
of civic pride for a short time there. It's kind of lost its identity and once a city loses its
identity it loses its soul and then it becomes like this desiccated and dead post-industrial town.
I still see Newport as a town even though it became a city. That's when Cardiff decided to
dismantle the art scene in Newport and assimilate it into Cardiff. I'm not saying that there are
many patterns there but yeah Newport was wonderful back then. It was wonderful. I'm not looking at
this through rose-tinted glasses either. There was still a little chewing gum on the streets
but it wasn't as peppered with it as it is now. There wasn't broken glass, there wasn't a plague
of drug addiction, there wasn't syringes littering the streets or empty tents sitting in the doorway
of vacant shop units. All the shops were open, all the pubs were thriving. All roads led to Newport
rather than all railway tracks leading to Cardiff. 88, it was vibrant. There was quite an energized
subculture that rotated around the art college student community who were involved in all these
activities like throwing borderline illegal raves below pubs in Newport. The Carpenters Arms in
particular. There was a Slaughterhouse downstairs and there was this collective who used to put on
raves and dance nights down there. I think the collective was called UFO. That was in 1991.
They all developed around that period, the late 80s, early 90s. It was a fascinating period.
You had gothic folk horror rock units like Wicker Man doing their thing and Dean Bettis with the
Cowboy Killers. I think the abs were still in circulation at that time. At that time,
John Peel's favorite band. He worshipped the abs and understandably so they were a brilliant band.
Over a period of time, things changed. Having a Labour council for a prolonged period of time has
led to a political entropy. They made it very difficult for John Izzicolo to put on gigs for
the last 10 years of his career before his death. The police were actively in operation opposite
venue in the hope that they could close it down. All because of some
apocryphal stabbing event that tragically led to someone's death on their Clarence place.
It was just a case that they associated a subcultural, uncategorizable and somewhat
troubling phenomena like TJs as an enemy. They were gunning for it from the late 80s onwards.
The student population no longer exists in Newport. The Welsh Assembly decided to absorb
most of the art departments who were instrumental in creating the subculture that made Newport so
fascinating from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. They dismantled it, took it apart and absorbed
it into Cardiff in an attempt to sustain the illusionary cultural heganomy that that capital
city has. I don't want to go into politics but it has something to do with the Welsh Assembly and
something to do about sustaining an illusion of Cardiff being an international city. Of course,
no international city can exist without a thriving subculture and they did their utmost
and gradually succeeded in absorbing all of those creative artists who were sustaining the scene in
Newport.